Spring introduced WebFlux as a project to help with
integrating streams into your application.
There are a lot of things that happen when you
include WebFlux into your POM file, but mainly it integrates the reactor project,
the Netty server,
and includes the libraries that you need to begin developing with it.
Let's create a project now using the Spring Boot starter for WebFlux
as described in this code snippet from the pom.
xml.
Creating a WebFlux project is actually quite easy.
So easy that this demo would be about 30 minutes.
I'm going to actually add some of the other configuration we need to
create a full-fledged project as part of this module.
So I'm going to go ahead and right-click and say New, Spring Starter Project.
And I have actually ran this before,
so it has some of the defaults already filled out for me.
So my project name's going to be Reactive.
I'm using Java 9.
My group ID is com.
Pluralsight.
web.
reactive.
Artifact ID is Reactive, and the Package is com.
Pluralsight.
web.
reactive.
The next thing I'm going to do is click Next and choose the
starter dependencies that I want inside of here.
Now I've used some of these before,
so I had them available in my Frequently Used section box.
You won't if you haven't used them recently.
So I'm going to use the Typeahead box and say Reactive Web,
choose that one, and then I'm going to also type in here jpa.
I'm going to add JPA inside of here to create a full-fledged project.
Click Next and then Finish.
Once we're inside of here, we can open up our POM file,
go to our source tab for our POM,
and we can see that we have our webflux dependency and our jpa dependency.
Honestly,
this is all I need to do to have a WebFlux project
created and now start developing in it,
and that would be all you need to do to convert your project
from a web project to a WebFlux project.
WebFlux contains all of the web MVC libraries that you
would normally use if you just had a
spring-boot-starter-web dependency inside of here.
So our controllers, component scanners, our dispatcher servlet,
all of those things you're used to using inside of web
are contained inside of WebFlux.
It's actually a transit of dependency of WebFlux if you're used to Maven lingo.
That's how it's importing those libraries in.
Now I'm going to go ahead and add two other dependencies inside of here,
an H2 dependency for an embedded database and a javax.
xml.
bind dependency on the jaxb-api.
The first one, as I mentioned, was for our embedded database.
The second one is because this is not included in the Java 9 runtime any longer,
so I have to have that XML dependency in there for configuration purposes.
We save this, and now I'm going to open up our src/main/java,
ReactiveApplication, and this is how we would run our Spring Boot application.
Nothing new here.
If you've used this before, this is not a new concept inside of Spring Boot.
This is just how we fire up our application.
I'm going to go ahead and copy in our database configuration so
that we have an embedded database available for our app to use
and paste that below our main method.
And we have to import our dependencies here, and save that.
And now we have a database that is available for our app to use.
One really neat thing about Spring Boot if you haven't used this before,
for testing and development purposes,
you can copy files in your src/main/resources directory
that by convention will pick up and run.
I'm going to copy in two database configuration files.
And I'm going to place them underneath my src/main/resources directory.
You'll see two files here, a schema.
sql, and that just builds a basic schema inside of our application, and a data.
sql, and that just populates some default data inside there for our app to use.
I also want to tell Spring that this is an H2 database,
and the way I do that is by opening up our application.
properties,
and I'm going to paste in here that I do not want hibernate to generate our
ddl and that I want to use the jpa database type of H2.
We save this.
Now to make this an even more full-fledged application,
I'm going to right-click on our src/main/Java source folder and say New,
Class, and I'm going to change the package to com.
Pluralsight.
web.
reactive.
model, just append a model on the end there, and give it a name of Person.
And this is just a basic POJO.
And inside of here,
I'm going to just copy in this code that defines it as an entity.
There is an empty instance,
and I'll show you why we use that here in another demo,
and then defines its ID, just basic JPA properties.
If you've used JPA before, nothing new here.
I've got the Id, GeneratedValue, and then a couple of fields,
name and email, and then some getters and setters,
just a normal project.
If we were using a tool like Lombok,
we wouldn't even need to copy in the name and email getters and setters.
So let's save this, and then I'm going to do the same thing.
I'm going to create a JPA repository interface.
I'm going to right-click on our package again and say New, Interface.
I'm going to change the package of that to com.
Pluralsight.
web.
reactive.
repository.
Add an extended interface for JpaRepository,
and the name is the PersonRespository, and we'll finish that.
It's going to ask us to change the type,
which is Person, and the Id is a Long, and we can save that.
Now we've added our database, our repository,
and our model object for us to have a full-fledged database-driven
application and two files to help us create that schema and populate it
with some sample information for our demos.
Now let's run this to make sure that everything is working right,
and we can start making our application reactive.
To run this, I'm going to open up the ReactiveApplication,
right-click, and say Run As, Java Application.
And everything started up correctly.
One thing I want to note as of Spring 5 and this version of the
milestone is you'll see a warning inside of here,
and you can see that on my screen right now.
It's a great big red warning saying that there's this illegal access operation.
This is a known bug.
It's documented.
Your application's actually running correctly.
It happens on the Netty server and the version of CG
Live that's included in the project.
They're correcting it, and it will be fixed with the final release.
Our application is completely built now,
and we're ready to start adding reactive streams to our web tier. Let's look at what that means for us now.